---
county: columbia
state: NY
content_type: html
source_url: https://solidwaste.columbiacountyny.com/recycling-protocol/recycling-encyclopedia
---

            Columbia County, New York - Recycling EncyclopediaSearch this siteEmbedded FilesSkip to main contentSkip to navigationFIND ABOUT THE RECYCLING AND DISPOSAL PROTOCOLS FOR COLUMBIA COUNTYRecycling EncyclopediaColumbia County, New YorkHome/AnnouncementsEventsStations - Hours and LocationsLocal Solid Waste Management PlanRecycling Protocol Recycling EncyclopediaTextile RecyclingE-WasteFees & PoliciesRecycling & Food Scrap StickerBags & Punch CardsYard Waste, Construction & Demolition Debris, Municipal Solid WastePer Item Fee: FreonPer Item Fee: Furniture, Tires, & Other Miscellaneous Food Scrap ProgramServicesBattery Recycling InformationHazardous Waste - One Day EventAgricultural Hazardous WasteFree Stores - Community LinksBYO - Bring your OwnPaint Care LocationsSyringe Disposal LocationsMedication Take-Back LocationsHoliday ScheduleLinksColumbia County, New YorkHome/AnnouncementsEventsStations - Hours and LocationsLocal Solid Waste Management PlanRecycling Protocol Recycling EncyclopediaTextile RecyclingE-WasteFees & PoliciesRecycling & Food Scrap StickerBags & Punch CardsYard Waste, Construction & Demolition Debris, Municipal Solid WastePer Item Fee: FreonPer Item Fee: Furniture, Tires, & Other Miscellaneous Food Scrap ProgramServicesBattery Recycling InformationHazardous Waste - One Day EventAgricultural Hazardous WasteFree Stores - Community LinksBYO - Bring your OwnPaint Care LocationsSyringe Disposal LocationsMedication Take-Back LocationsHoliday ScheduleLinksMoreHome/AnnouncementsEventsStations - Hours and LocationsLocal Solid Waste Management PlanRecycling Protocol Recycling EncyclopediaTextile RecyclingE-WasteFees & PoliciesRecycling & Food Scrap StickerBags & Punch CardsYard Waste, Construction & Demolition Debris, Municipal Solid WastePer Item Fee: FreonPer Item Fee: Furniture, Tires, & Other Miscellaneous Food Scrap ProgramServicesBattery Recycling InformationHazardous Waste - One Day EventAgricultural Hazardous WasteFree Stores - Community LinksBYO - Bring your OwnPaint Care LocationsSyringe Disposal LocationsMedication Take-Back LocationsHoliday ScheduleLinksWelcome to the Columbia County Solid Waste RECYCLING ENCYCLOPEDIAPlease note that this guide includes recyclable and nonrecyclable items.For a comprehensive list of items that are NOT recyclable please visit the Recycle Right NY website here  and then click on the Do Not Put In Recycling Category.Air ConditionersAir Conditioners can be brought to the Greenport Transfer Station, 51 Newman Road, Hudson, NY.  The station is open Monday - Saturday from 7:30 AM - 3:45 PM. If you are paying by credit card, please go over the scale, please note the scale CLOSES at 3:00 PM daily.AntifreezeAntifreeze can be brought to the Household Hazardous Waste Collection Day Event. More information can be found here: Hazardous Waste - One Day Event Many local auto shops and mechanics will accept used antifreeze for proper disposal as well. Improper disposal of antifreeze can contaminate soil and water, harming wildlife and humans. Antifreeze is toxic and can be fatal if ingested by children or pets. It is important to store used antifreeze in properly labeled, leak-proof containers until you can dispose of it safely.AppliancesFreon Appliances including refrigerators, freezers, dehumidifiers, and air conditioners can be brought to the Greenport Transfer Station ONLY. Click Per Item Fee: Freon for more information.Small appliances may be brought to any of the stations located throughout the County. Click  Per Item Fee: Furniture, Tires, & Other Miscellaneous   for more information.Argon, Oxygen, Carbon Dioxide, Welding Mix, Nitrous Oxide, Nitrogen, and Beer Gas CylindersThese cylinders are NOT accepted at any Columbia County Station.  CGM Air, Inc located at 150 Orange Street, Suite B, Albany, NY will take these cylinders.  Click here  for their website and for further information.  PLEASE NOTE: CGM Air, Inc. does NOT take any flammable cylinders.AsbestosPlease contact the Solid Waste Administration, 518-828-2737,  for information regarding Asbestos material.BallastsBallasts should be removed from the light fixture. Electronic ballasts used today may contain lead solders. Ballasts manufactured before 1979 contain capacitors with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). All ballasts manufactured after 1/1/1979 do not contain PCBs and are labeled: "No PCBs."  Typically, ballasts which do not contain PCBs will be labeled with a sticker. American Lamp Recycling, 1-800-315-6262 will take ballasts, click here for further information and TCI of New York, 518-756-9997 will take ballasts, click here for further information.Scrap yards MAY take ballasts that are labeled "No PCBs", please contact the scrap yard in your area first for clarification and instructions.Batteries - Alkaline, Single-Use, Rechargeable, and AutomotiveAlkaline batteries -Dispose of in the garbage, or you may find a mail away program such as Call2recycle.org.  Your local Staples store offers battery recycling as well.Rechargeable batteries- The NYS Rechargeable Battery Recycling Act requires manufacturers of covered rechargeable batteries to collect and recycle the batteries at no cost to consumers. Many local retailers provide bins for battery recycling.  Examples of these batteries include rechargeable batteries for cordless power tools. These batteries can NOT be thrown out with your household garbage or placed with your household recyclables.Household Single-Use and Rechargeable batteries -All Staples stores accept household single-use and rechargeable batteries, which include:Lithium ion (Li-Ion)Nickel metal hydride (Ni-MH)Nickel zinc (Ni-Zn)Non-rechargeable lithiumRechargeable nickel cadmium (Ni-Cd)Single-use alkalineSmall sealed lead acid (SSLA/Pb) - under 11 poundsLithium-ion and rechargeable batteries can NOT be thrown out with your household garbage or placed with your household recyclables. No Columbia County operated station take these batteries for recycling. Automotive batteries- These batteries can be brought to retailers who sell these batteries for recycling. They can also be brought any of the Columbia County Solid Waste stations. Campaign Signs, Lawn Signs, Etc.Campaign signs, lawn signs, etc. are NOT recyclable and must be thrown away with your household garbage.CandlesCandles, candle jars, candle holders are not recyclable and should be thrown away with your household garbage.CardboardCardboard should be broken down flat, clean and dry and can be brought to any of the stations located in Columbia County for recycling.  If the cardboard is dirty, has food debris, paint, or other containments, it should be thrown out with your household garbage. Carpet, Carpet Padding, RugsThese are not recyclable. Please throw away with your household garbage.  If the carpet or carpet padding is larger 8' x 10' it must be disposed of at the Greenport Transfer Station, 51 Newman Road, Hudson, NY. CD's/DVD'sCD’s and DVD’s are not recyclable.  Either donate them or dispose of them in your garbage. Cell PhonesThe NYS Wireless Recycling Act requires all wireless telephone service providers that offer phones for sale must accept your cell phones for reuse or recycling. Coffee PodsCoffee pods are not recyclable.  Place them in your garbage. Decorative LightingDecorative lighting including string lights, patio stringer lights, fairy lights, rope lights, and net lighting are not recyclable. These items must be thrown out with your household garbage. Lightbulbs must be disposed of properly.Diapers, Adult Diapers, Pet Diapers and Pet Potty Pads These items are not recyclable. They must be thrown out with your household garbage.Disposable CupsDisposable cups cannot be recycled. Dispose of them in your garbage. ElectronicsElectronics can be brought to the Greenport Transfer Station only.  Click E-Waste for more information.EyeglassesEyeglasses can be donated to your local Lions Club.  Fire ExtinguishersFire extinguishers are not accepted at any Columbia County Station. Contact a local retailer for assistance.Food WasteAll Columbia County Stations accept food scraps in labeled containers separate from the recycling container. Place your scraps, free from plastic bags and garbage, in the labeled containers at the station. All food scraps must be free from debris; no plastic bands, stickers, twist ties, staples, napkins, coffee filters, paper towels, and/or food containers should be placed with the food scraps. A current Recycling Sticker is required to participate in the Food Scrap Collection Program.Garden Hoses These are not recyclable. Throw them out with your household garbage.Gasoline MixturesGasoline mixtures are a hazardous waste and can be brought to the Columbia County Household Hazardous Waste Collection Day Event. Click Hazardous Waste - One Day Event  for more information.Glass Examples of Glass that can be recycled:Beer bottlesother beverage bottlespickle jarsspaghetti sauceAll containers must be empty, clean, and dry. No Pyrex, ceramics, or window glass please.Broken items belong in the trash.Glass Dishware, Ceramic Dishware, and Pyrex®These are not recyclable. Donate or dispose of them in the garbage. Ink and Toner CartridgesSome cartridges can be refilled and reused. If you'd rather recycle, manufacturers have mail back programs or you can bring them back to a retailer that sells cartridges for free recycling.  They do not belong with household recycling.Invasive PlantsInvasive plants, including Giant hogweed and Japanese Knotweed are NOT accepted at any Columbia County Solid Waste station. Please note that Japanese Knotweed, and all other invasive plants can not be bagged and disposed of with your household garbage. There are protocols at all landfills for the proper disposal and destruction of these plants. Refer to the NYSDEC's website, https://extapps.dec.ny.gov/docs/lands_forests_pdf/disposinginvasiveplantfs.pdf  for more information. Light BulbsCFL bulbs can be brought to your local Home Depot or Lowes for free recycling. Fluorescent tubes can be brought to the Greenport Transfer Station ONLY or by contacting American Lamp Recycling.Incandescent bulbs can be thrown in your household garbage as they do not contain hazardous materials.Click here  for more information.MattressesMattresses and box springs can be brought to the Greenport Transfer Station Only. Click Per Item Fee: Furniture, Tires, & Other Miscellaneous   for more information. Metal Food ContainersClean and empty aluminum cans, lids, foil wrap, and foil trays can be recycled. The items must be clean of all food debris. Dog, Cat, and Tuna fish cans should be thrown in the garbage with your household waste if they are not completely clean.Metal - Non Food ContainersThese items are not recyclable . Non food metal containers; metal dish racks, metal curtain rods, metal decorative dishes, metal window screening, metal picture frames, etc. can be disposed of in the METAL containers located at all stations. There is a charge. Motor OilNY State requires service stations and automotive retailers to accept used motor oil, up to five gallons per day, at NO charge.Many major auto part stores; Advance Auto Parts, AutoZone, O'Reilly Auto Parts, as well as quick lube shops have take-back programs.  Please confirm with any business that they accept used oil and ask about any restrictions or limits.Store your used oil in a clean, plastic containers with a tight-fitting lid, and label it clearly.MedicineDo not flush any medicines! Columbia County residents have the opportunity to discard their unused and/or expired medications at a permanent Prescription Drug Drop Box location. Unused or expired prescription and over-the-counter medications can end up in the hands of children or leach into our drinking water if discarded improperly. A list of drop off locations can be downloaded here. Columbia County Medication Drop Box Locations PaintLatex Paint is not a hazardous waste.  To dispose of it mix one part cat litter (or saw dust) with one part paint.  Let it sit out to dry in a ventilated area.  Once paint is completely dried, place it in a garbage bag, tie it tightly, and dispose of it in the garbage.  Latex paint can also be brought to a participating paint care drop off location. Click here for more information:  www.paintcare.org/states/new-york/ Oil Based Paint is considered a hazardous waste and should be brought to a participating paint care drop off location or to a Columbia County Household Hazardous Waste Collection Day Event, the next event can be found here Hazardous Waste - One Day Event PaperPaper such as office paper, newspaper, magazines, junk mail, and construction paper can all brought to any of the Columbia County stations.Photographs and NegativesThese items are not recyclable. These items must be thrown out with your household garbage.Pizza BoxesPizza boxes are not recyclable and must be placed with your household garbage.Plastic Bags (Film Plastic)Plastic bags and other plastic film do not go in your recycling bin.  These items must go in with your household garbage.Plastic Bottles and JugsPlastic bottles and jugs, with recycling numbers 1,2, and 5 should be empty, cleaned of food residue and can be recycled at any of the Columbia County stations. Put the caps back on so they won't slip through the cracks in the equipment. ONLY #1, #2, and #5 will be accepted all other plastic must be thrown out with your household garbage.  Peanut and nut butter jars must be completely clean of all food debris otherwise they should be thrown out with your household garbage.Plastic Plant Nursery Pots, Plant containers, and PlantersThese are not recyclable. Please throw them out with your household garbage. Plastic StrawsPlastic straws are not recyclable.  Place them in your garbage. Plastic Storage Bins and Plastic Food Storage ContainersPlastic storage bins and food storage containers are not recyclable.  Place them in your garbage. Plastic UtensilsPlastic Utensils are not recyclable.  Place them in your garbage. Pots and Pans Metal pots and pans can be placed in the metal containers located at all of the Stations. There is a fee for disposal. They are not recyclable.Propane Tank These are not recyclable and not accepted as household garbage. Contact your local gas company to ask if they will accept your tank. Sharps, including Syringes, Needles and LancetsDo not place in garbage or recycling bins. Click Syringe Disposal Locations  for more information.Smoke Detector & Carbon Monoxide AlarmsWe do NOT accept smoke detectors at our Household Hazardous Waste events. Please review this article. If your detector is  photoelectric, please remove the battery and throw it in your household trash. Carbon Monoxide alarms may be thrown out with your household trash. Please remove all batteries from the alarm first.  Sneaker RecyclingCheck out GotSneakers ! They are a sneaker recycling organization that is making it socially and financially rewarding to contribute to a circular economy.  Great for individuals and for schools and non-profits looking for fundraising ideas.Styrofoam® and Packaging peanutsStyrofoam® and other packaging material including packing peanuts are not recyclable.  They must be thrown out with your household garbage. TextilesTextiles such as clothing, shoes, and bedding do not go in the recycling bin but you can bring them into a clothing donation box.  All Columbia County stations have donation bins for shoes and clothing or go to Reclothe NY to find a drop off location near you. Tires All Stations will take the following tires (no more than 6 per visit):Up to 19" - $5.00/tire20-24" - $20.00/tireRims are an additional $1.00 eachNo Columbia County Solid Waste Station will take tires larger than 24" Tissues, Paper Towels, Toilet Paper, Napkins, and Paper PlatesThese items are not recyclable. They are to be thrown out with your household garbage.Tupperware® and Rubbermaid®These items are not recyclable. They are to be thrown out with your household garbage.VHS TapesVHS tapes are not recyclable.  Either donate them or dispose of them in your garbage. WrappersWrappers such as those from snack bars, potato chips or candy, can not be recycled.  Dispose of them in your garbage. Wrapping paper, Gift wrap, decorative paper, metallic paperThese papers are not recyclable. Throw them out with your household garbage.Yard WasteVery small quantities of leaves and grass clippings can be brought to the Greenport Transfer Station.  Some municipalities provide seasonal pick-up.  Backyard composters can compost their yard waste.CONTACT INFORMATION: Wendy S. Madsen, Director  wendy.madsen@columbiacountyny.govAdministrative Office, ccsolidwaste@columbiacountyny.govMailing: 401 State Street, Hudson, NY 12534Physical: 51 Newman Road, Hudson, NY 12534Phone: 518-828-2737Report abusePage detailsPage updated Report abuse