---
county: fulton
state: NY
content_type: html
source_url: https://www.fultoncountyny.gov/department-solid-waste
---

            










Department of Solid Waste | FULTON COUNTY






















































































      Skip to main content
    


























Menu





Main navigation


 How Do I



 Departments


Departments sub-navigation





 Airport



 Assigned Counsel



 Budget Office



 Real Property



 Community Services



 Coroner



 County Attorney



 County Clerk



 County Treasurer



 District Attorney



 Elections



 Emergency Management



 Highways & Facilities



 Historian



 Information Technology



 Motor Vehicles



 Office for the Aging



 Personnel



 Planning



 Probation



 Public Defender



 Public Health



 Purchasing



 Sheriff's Office



 Social Services



 Solid Waste



 A-Z Policy Guide



 Green Building Options



 Landfill



 Recycling



 Berkshire



 Broadalbin



 Caroga



 Ephratah



 Landfill



 Northampton



 Oppenheim



 Stratford



 Transfer Stations





 Veterans Service Agency



 Weights & Measures





 Government



 Development



 Tourism



 Documents



 Employment








Search




Search


















Search




Search






































 Solid Waste Director:David Rhodes Deputy Director Administration:Michelle IppolitiDeputy Director of Operations:Jeffrey Hertik DSW Office:Monday - Friday:7:00 AM - 3:30 PMDSW Landfill Scale:Monday - Friday:7:15 AM - 3:00 PMSaturday:7:15 AM - 11:30 AM Address:847 Mud RoadJohnstown NY 12095 Main Office:(518) 736-5501Recycling Info:(518) 736-5504 Fax:(518) 762-2859 Like us on Facebook





 










The Department of Solid Waste - is located at 847 Mud Road in the Town of Johnstown, situated on 720 acres of land. The property consists of a Sanitary Landfill, a Landfill Transfer Station, a Materials Recycling Facility, Landfill Gas to Electric Facility and the Department offices. The department also manages 7 other Transfer Stations at various locations in the County.The Sanitary Landfill - (47.9 acres) consists of 10 cells, including 1 capped cell and 1 cell that is yet to be opened. A total of 105 acres is available for actual landfill. Areas are also set aside for collecting recyclable items such as tires and metal that are then marketed to recycling companies.The Landfill Transfer Station - services the City of Johnstown, Town of Johnstown and City of Gloversville residents. This transfer station also serves the residents of Fulton County for disposal of Tires and Freon Units (fees apply), as well as disposal of mercury containing thermostats and Fluorescent bulbs. See Transfer Stations for more information on this and the other Transfer Stations.The Materials Recycling Facility - handles Fulton County’s single stream, electronics, and other recycling. Recycling materials are marketed or brought to other recycling facilities for further processing.Landfill Gas to Electric Facility - In 2010, the Gas to Electric Plant began producing electricity. The public/private partnership with Archaea Energy is a revenue sharing venture by providing electricity that is sold back to the power grid. Methane gas generated by the landfill is piped to the gas plant and converted to electric with the use of special generators. The energy plant is designed to generate up to 3.2 megawatts of electricity – enough to power about 2,400 homes.Department offices - The department offices consist of administrative offices and a maintenance garage. The County Demolition Team also operates out of this facility.






Transfer StationsFulton County Landfill




Recycling
Green Building Options
A-Z Solid Waste Policy Guide




Landfill Permit Application pdfSinglestream Recycling pdfSmall Business Recycling Permit pdfAnnual Report pdfHoliday Schedule pdfRecycling Calendar pdf




Employment Opportunities
 










 










Holiday Calendar pdf






Recycling Calendar pdf






Transfer Stations









 































     ·  Home · How Do I... · Departments · Government · Development · Travel & Tourism · Documents · Employment ·    

© 2021 County of Fulton, State of New York. All Rights Reserved.

























