---
county: kings
state: NY
content_type: html
source_url: https://www.nyc.gov/site/dsny/collection/get-rid-of/construction-debris.page
---

            



Construction Debris - DSNY













































New York City Department of Sanitation311Search all NYC.gov websites






Menu









Text-Size

Search








                      Home


About


What We Do


Collection


Businesses


Resources


Careers










Search










Search































ResidentsSchools & AgenciesGet Rid of …Containerization













SelectAppliancesAutomotive WasteBatteriesClothing, Household Fabrics, & AccessoriesConstruction DebrisDead AnimalsElectronics & E-WasteFurniture, Mattresses, & RugsGas Cylinders & Fire ExtinguishersHarmful Household ProductsInk & Toner CartridgesLarge ItemsLight BulbsMedical WasteMercury & Mercury-Containing DevicesMetal, Glass, Plastic, & CartonsMixed Paper & CardboardOils, Grease, & FatsPlant, Leaf, & Yard Waste


Appliances


Automotive Waste


Batteries


Clothing, Household Fabrics, & Accessories


Construction Debris


Dead Animals


Electronics & E-Waste


Furniture, Mattresses, & Rugs


Gas Cylinders & Fire Extinguishers


Harmful Household Products


Ink & Toner Cartridges


Large Items


Light Bulbs


Medical Waste


Mercury & Mercury-Containing Devices


Metal, Glass, Plastic, & Cartons


Mixed Paper & Cardboard


Oils, Grease, & Fats


Plant, Leaf, & Yard Waste






          Share
  

 Print 




Construction Debris
DIY Construction Projects (Non-Professional)
Something is considered a Do-It-Yourself (DIY) construction project if it is small in scale and done without the help of professionals, like hired workers or contractors.
NYC residents can get free curbside removal of materials from DIY construction projects.
For large items – like cabinetry, drywall, siding, sinks, toilets, and tubs – that are too large to fit in a bin, follow rules for large (bulk) items:
Set out:

Items that are mostly metal or plastic with recycling
All other non-recyclable items with trash

You can set out up to 6 large items at the curb per collection day. Remove exposed nails and other sharp objects that might cause injury when handled.
Some items may require special handling, including:

Appliances with CFCs
Harmful household products (harsh cleaners, paint, and polish)
Insulation
Thermostats

For major construction or renovation projects generating a large amount of waste, arrange for a dumpster through a private trash removal service.
Treated Wood and Flooring
Bundle and securely tie any treated wood or flooring that does not fit inside a bin.
Treated wood – like lumber, particle board, plywood, and other wood composites – is not compostable and should be disposed of as trash. Vinyl and laminate flooring and tiles should also be disposed of as trash.
Learn more about disposing of rugs and carpeting.
Professional Construction Projects
Construction and demolition waste generated by professional contractors cannot be discarded as residential garbage.
The contractor or resident must arrange for a dumpster through a private trash removal service.
Private contractors should arrange for disposal of debris like heaters, sinks, and tubs.
The Business Integrity Commission (BIC) certifies waste haulers in NYC and maintains a list of all registered haulers approved to remove construction and demolition waste.
Asbestos
Asbestos is hazardous waste and should NEVER be disposed of with trash or recycling. For handling, storage, and disposal of asbestos or items containing asbestos, contact a hazardous material or chemical waste disposal company.
Deconstruction and Donation
Unlike demolition, deconstruction is the careful dismantling of buildings to preserve materials for reuse and recycling. The benefits of deconstruction include job creation, waste diversion, energy conservation, and historical preservation.
Resources for reusing and exchanging building materials:

donateNYC Exchange
Big Reuse
Rebuilding Together NYC Rebuild Center
Habitat for Humanity NYC ReStore


































nyc.gov homeServicesEventsYour government311Contact NYC governmentRegister to voteEmergency alerts CareersWebsite feedbackAccessibility resourcesPrivacy policyTerms of useAbout nyc.gov content


NYC

SearchSearch


© City of New York. 2025 All Rights Reserved. NYC is a trademark and service mark of the City of New York.





















